.TH redo-ifchange 1 "January 23, 2014" "Redux User Manual"
.SH NAME
.PP
ifchange - Creates dependency on targets and ensure that targets are up
to date.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
redux ifchange [TARGET...]
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
-?=false: Show help
.PP
-h=false: Show help
.PP
-help=false: Show help
.SH NOTES
.PP
The ifchange command creates a dependency on the target files and
ensures that the target files are up to date, calling the redo command,
if necessary.
.PP
The current file will be invalidated if a target is rebuilt.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This command can be invoked as \f[C]redux\ ifchange\f[] or, through a
symlink, as \f[C]redo-ifchange\f[].
.PP
The \f[C]redo-ifchange\f[] command is used in a \f[C].do\f[] script.
.PP
When the \f[C].do\f[] script for a target A contains the line
\f[C]redo-ifchange\ B\f[], this means that the target A depends on B and
A should be rebuilt if B changes.
.PP
This command should be placed in a \f[C].do\f[] script and should not be
run directly.
.SH DETAILS
.PP
Conceptually, redo-ifchange performs three tasks.
.PP
First, it creates a prerequisite record between A and B so A can track
changes to B.
Second, it creates a dependency record between B and A so a change in B
immediately invalidates A.
Finally, if B is out of date, redo-ifchange ensures that B is made up to
date.
.PP
B is considered out of date if it does not exist, is not in the
database, is flagged as out of date, has been modified or any of its
dependents are out of date.
Obviously this process may recurse.
.SH AUTHORS
Gyepi Sam.
